hi I'm emerald Robinson and in this what
is video we're going to investigate the
state of matter called
a solid solids are materials that keep
their form that is solids don't change
their shape or expand to fit the
container that they are in although
there are many different solids there
are a few characteristics that they have
in common first the particles in a solid
are arranged so that they remain close
to one another but this does not mean
that there is no movement at all
electrons still orbit the atom's nucleus
and the atoms themselves vibrator jiggle
but the molecules in a solid always stay
in close proximity second solids can't
be compressed because there's not a lot
of space between the atoms they can't be
squeezed together any closer than they
already are
sometimes scientists say that solids are
a condensed phase of matter third in
general solids have melting and boiling
points that are higher than room
temperature solids are sometimes
classified by how their atoms are
arranged if the atoms in a substance are
in a pattern the solid is known as a
crystal common crystals include metals
ceramics and diamonds which are large
single crystals if the atoms in a
substance are not arranged in a pattern
the solid is called amorphous which
means without a form common amorphous
solids include plastics and glass most
of the time solids are not made of all
of one kind of atom or even made
consistently of the same material these
types of solids are called mixtures or
more scientifically composites most of
the things we see every day are
composites especially things in nature
like rocks wood and soil for thousands
of how-to and advice videos on any topic
visit monkey-see calm
you